
### The hated project

It was a very warm summer, hot summer and hot adventure.
But it finished. Reality is here, and it not a fairy tail.

Dedicated project for Church AI was finished.
Customer ask him to implement monitoring system for statistic report about active users and click on the links from the report. Of cause they want to check conversion rate. Like any shop.

Church that sells faith. And David is part of this business.

### Investigation is continue

He don't stop investigation, his AI Assistent continue works.
David time to time checks the database of bots, but looks like it found all possible profiles - 448 profiles, and only 4 new profile in last month. As he understood it real people, fanatics of AI church. He also uses photos of this people from their public profiles to learn AI to detect this people.
David checks this, AI has 99% accuracy.
He found some people has link to another in their public social profiles.

So, David has AI which can detect people from list on photos. But he doen't understand where he can search, and what he want to find. 

### The wind of change

After the summer fall is come. Fall with winds and cold.

David doesn't like cold winds in Budapest. Just only hot coffee can help him feel better.
But coffee in the office steels "budget", he doesn't like it.
In one work day, on road time between coffee shop and work he noticed the familiar newspaper headline - The Budapest Times. For some unknown reason he decides to buy this issue of the newspaper, and with this unexpected purchase he backs to the office.

"Oh, what the reason is" - thought David when he looks on the newspaper more details - sub title of "AI in military service". 

"Interesting", - David starts reading.

The article was about new technologies, and how military companies start use AI for recognition of enemies in the battlefield. About the first fully autonomic tower with machine gun which build and use Israel. How Israel army use fully autonomic system to destroy drones on the border. It was a good analyses of information, which David already knows from his daily report. It looks like new era, it very important changes for all armies in the world - all armies tried to integrate AI to their system for handling battle.

David noticed the author, and yep, it was Lilla, he smiled.

But he was afraid to write to her again and meet her, without any reason

### Winter is coming.

the days dragged on in a work routine
code, testing, publishing
and again and again
it seemed like some kind of Groundhog Day, only the weather was getting worse every day
first frost
Winter is coming.

### The Side Effect.

routine days are continue with december.
the routine of usual days was interrupted

David received a very strange result in his daily report: one of not a popular game received mention of it in every report in week. Why was it so strange? Of course, before new releases of any game, he saw the same situation. But this is not a new game, not a famous game, it is not a widespread game. It is not a new version of Stalker.

He improved his AI Assistant, and now it has a debug mode for analysing report result, and now David can easly understood why he received some result in report.

He run debug mode and received very interesting data.
He thought, AI Assistant uses every subject for analyze as independ set of data, but not. AI Assistant, because it knows every subject, uses all set of the data, and as result every invesigation's subject has affect to each other invesigation's subject.

"Mmmm, not good, not terrible" - it was citation from the mini-serial about Chernobyl

This is not good, it looks like bug, but otherwise the report was really good, and it really fit the user expectations. Ok, I will keep this in mind, but don't want to change this behaviour.

So, David answered himself for question, why he read to many times about this game - for now he has two active subject - Games and AI, and this game mentioned in the news about Games and about AI.

Strange, looks like somebody spent to much money for advertisement and promotion. David decided to looks on this game closer.

### The Dark Alert.

A.V.A.M. Ltd. - Aut vincere, aut mori.

The game has a title The Dark Alert from new A.V.A.M. Ltd.
Sounds like trying to usage Red Alert title as referral, and the same wibe from this old game in the video trailers.

This new game looks like just another one first-person shooter. Authors of the game use the theme of the war between Ukraine and Russia, and they think they will achieve a success. In the game you can choose one of the two commands: UA (Ukrainian Alliance) or RU (Red Union).

David noticed good words game - UA - it is ISO code of Ukraine, and also it is Ukrainian Alliance in the game. RU - is also ISO for Russian, and Red Union in the game.

But authors missed one point - nobody wants to play by losers side.

David knows, some guys on his work also played this game, and everyone chose Ukraine side. Yep, hungarian citizens remember what a evil did the soviet union in their country, and was Russian Federation before collapsem which in fact was the successor of Soviet Union.

David deeps to world of this game, it just free to play shooter with in-game shop, for buy some skins for weapon, personage and so on.
In this game you can find many military vehicles, and also possibility simple modernization of it, like camouflage's net or other options.
And also possible to build some simple constructions like trenches and dugouts, "Fortnite for adult boys" - noticed David.

Many times authors of the game tries to attract attention to game. But without any major effect. The game still miss-balanced. To many gamers who want to play on Ukrainian side, and not for Russians. As result they received situation, when game doesn't start because Ukrainian team is full, but Russian doesn't filled to need level of members.

Next tries to restart the game - additional technical bonuses for Russian side, which should fix game balance. It was artillery strike and air strike, and other options, but it also was not enough for fix game balance.

And right now it was like new atempt. For back balance to the game authors of the game added new feature. All still the same for the UA side, but for their opponent RU, authors of game added new feature - gamer received unit with 4 troops, and gamer receieved basic controls for them, it's works very similar to real world, player just gaves orders by the voice to the microphone.

It was really interesting feature, it really looks like something new in the game world. The authors promises that bots doesn't use server data for decision making, just use their AI to analyze situation and decided what to do next.

### The advertising works

David don't like shooters, and of cause he doesn't want to play on RU side. He decided just to see the gameplay on the youtube and twitch service.

this should be enough to satisfy his curiosity.

He saw, this game really have a good feedback from real player. And AI of units have a good progress from release to release.

But he sees the players use this new feature like authors of the game didn't think. Player inside RU team start fighting each other. It looks like Battle Royale from other games, but inside one team.
It possible, because troops in unit don't know anithing about another unit. Like in real world, you as commander should know situation and have communcation with another commanders. But in result - it not a team play. Commander fight each other and use radio just to joke each other. And after this, who won tried to fight with UA team. It was strange but was to gives many fun to players.

"It looks like was real russian army, where every field commander want to received all awards alone" - thought David who watched this videos.

But not this was interesting for him. David noticed how works AI in this game. He noticed, every trooper in your unit has individual AI, and he doesn't have unwatched link to another trooper in the unit. So, as result, friendly fire it is possible not only between unit, but and inside troopers in unit. So it looks interesting. AI works independs and trying to analyse situation itself. And if it thinks he sees an enemy, he tries to kill him.

### Working bored

From begining of december in the office space feeling of celebration.
It was very cosy.

David likes Christmas holidays, but this is the first time, when he celebrates it alone.
He can't travel to his hometown in Ukraine, because the airlines still doesn't work for civil people. Trains to hometown - it 2 days in the road in one direction. This is too much, he doesn't have enough vacations days for this. As fact he decied to spend in Budapest for holidays.

He bought local dry wine and a new game as presents himself. 
And yes, he muted the AI assistant again.

### The rules changed

Several weeks later, he returns to AI reports. And he saw, this game returned to the AI reports, too much news about it. 


So, the game designers follow the user's requirements. They changed the game.

Now it looks like competition of coach and his AI bots.
The developers allow gamers to teach their own model for this game.
And now this game looks like competitions of coach, their AI units, and their computers powers.

This game received attention from hardware developers of chips like NVidia and AMD.
These companies found players who play well and gift them the newest hardware, which gamers use to play this game.

This game became very popular, and also still interesting for real team players.
But it changed to format 5 vs 5 game, where real player in UA-team vs one player and his 4 bots in RU-team.

It's likes Counter-Strike game, but very modern, with vehicles, droids, copters and so on, what we saw in the battlefield of war between Ukraine and Russia.

David again starts watching streams from this game.
Progress for one month was incredible. Winter looks like a hotest season for developer team. It looks like developers worked for all Christmas holidays. 

### The Umbrella

Very interesting moment of this game - the model and all data is located on the client side, in fact everyone can looks inside and change something. But for play on a tournament and even online you should upload your model to the server for validation.
It big amount of data, from 40 to 100 Gb per model.

It is very intersting for David, he decided download game and looks inside the files. 
He found something interesting in folder of game.

It was a very big agreement file, David don't want to read it, and just send it as is to ChatGPT, and ask to analyse it and send back very short version.

"Bla-bla-bla, we don't have any responsibilty for any changes, we have permissions do decline your model, bla-bla-bla, you changes this is only your pain, but of cause any your changes and model is our property".

Boring.

"Please, who has intellectual property rights for this model now and after than I teach it something, who is owner?"

"AI models before and after teaching is intellectual property rights belong to Umbrella Group"

"Are you sure, send me citation of this part from agreement"

"Yes, this is part of agreement which you want to read:"

"AI models of all gamers is intellectual property rights belong to Umbrella Group"

David search in the document by keyword "Umbrella" and really found it.     

Agreement in the game, all AI models of all gamers is intellectual property rights belong to Umbrella Group. It looks very strange, because it is not the game owners or developers, it is something what you can find only in this place, and only here.

David thinks it should be "Umbrella Corporation", but it copirited by Capcom :)
But ok, sometimes "umbrella" it just umbrella.

He tries to find information about this "Corporation", oh "Group", and found several user profiles on LinkdIn, and some ex-employee profiles. He also find address of the company on the Cyprus, but looking by Google Street View, it just not presentable office building.

Nothing interesting, only absolutely nothing personal info in these profiles. And nothing found in other social networks.

People-shadows, without digital footprints in the Internet. Only very clear profiles with only one photo.

He checks their photos in people-network from AI Church and also - nothing. 

Photos is not enough to learn AI to recognize these people, it looks like the dead end.
David saves information, photos, and links for all people in this list.
And write a small script to check changes on their profiles.
He should receive a notification if something changes.

### Reddit

Very strange "Umbrella Group", David tried to search any information about it, but he received only result relevant to "Umbrella Corporation" from Resident Evil game world.

He decided to use the power of the reddit community to try to find the answers.
He uses VPN and register new user on reddit, call it ProfessorFromUmbrella.

He joins the reddit about Dark Alert game and write new post.

"Who is the Umbrella Group?" 

David added description and citations from the agreement, and ask guys who know anything about it. 

He choose friday, end of the day by PTS time, he knows it was a prime time for everybody, who already think about weekend. He received a big wave of comments, because it was hipe.

The hundreds comments, and of cause users send make screenshots from LinkedIn, and tries to find any other information. But, nothing new :(

### Top ten

This reddit post was like bada-bum.
David wrote it on friday's "office prime time" in the USA. 
He posted it by 00:00 by Budapest time, two hours he reads a comments, and than he goes sleep.

On Saturday, he starts with AI report, and yes, Game and AI, his favorite subject, and the report he received several news about his topic about Umbrella Group.

"Oh, it looks like I just changed the reality O_o"

He deeps to the comments, all of them was from "it very strange" to "it reptiloids, we will die soon", and other humor style trolling.

Many comments, David is tired read all of them. It funny, but doesn't have any result.

The result he received with next AI report on Sunday. Company, owner the game Dark Alert  published a short press release, with next content. 

"We are sorry, our agreement was outdated, it very old agreement, from our old outsource provider. It just mistake, all models is our property. The A.V.A.M ltd."

"Realy, looks like not truth, this new version of game with AI model published only 3 month ago, and they changed providers?"

"Very strange"

### Circles on the water

One week later, some freaks still write comments on the reddit topic, but it looks like nobody worries about agreement more. 

With background the next notification from David's tools: 

"Profile changed" - repeats 12 times, it was the bot which observes the changes on linkedin profiles of the Umbrella team. 

So, David opens their profiles and try to understand what is changed, and yes, all of them removed any information about Umbrella O_o

Ok, it seems like it was real people, and somebody order them to clean their profiles.

But David save all information, and all information about their contacts too.

When David looked last time on their profiles, he saw hundreds connections for evry contact, and of course half of them were intersection with each other. This is normal for LinkedIn, where you have a thousand or more contacts, but in fact can dont know anybody of them personaly.

He wrote a simple python script to check changes in the connections of profiles, and bingo

He received the two profiles, which disappear from contacts.

Two guys, it is very interesting.

### Deep to investigation

Two persons, two profiles, two active profiles.
Nothing links between each other.
Each of the - self-employed, both have own start-up blockchain companies.
Both visited the same AI conferences, but they don't have photos where guys are together. 

"The good hypotese" - thought David - "I will check all places where this two guys was"

He write the script and received some interesting in result.
Looks like this guys visited the same conferences every time for last year.

List of conferences are really big in whole world. Subjects are very similar each other: blockchain, AI, Ai, blockchain, blockchain again, AI, AI, military, and military again... 

It looks like only circumstantial evidence:

- game dev company A.V.A.M. Ltd. uses agreement about copyright to third party companies, and nobody knows who is
- the members of the third party company Umbrella Group after publicity remove information from their public profiles about this company, current employee and ex-employee, it looks like did by order from somebody
- in the same time two guys from connections of Umbrella Group employee remove their connection
- this two persons, visits the same conferences in the same time, but nothing more what can be show, they know each other or not
- also, they both visited the same military exhibitions in last month

"Too conspiracy theory, I need to buy foil hat, right now" - David jokes by himself

### The meeting is not a date

David doesn't know what he can do more, and he decided to write a message to Lilla.

"Hi, don't see you a long time. 
If you have time, can we meet?
P.S. Not a date ;)"

She answered very fast:

"Hi ))
let's meet on Saturday at the same place at 12:00"

David comes first on the café, and thinks Lilla will later and orders coffee.
But Lilla come after a moment when the waiter received an order from David:

"Please the same for me" - asked Lilla, and sits at the table.

"I think you have an interest story, and it doesn't scare me" - says Lilla.

"It depends" - answers David. - "What do you know about Dark Alert game?"

"Oh, it's new popular game, and they received a lot of money from investors, when started use AI inside a game."

"Ok, but it's not new, it third version of the game, and last one is too diff with previous versions, do you know how they use AI in this game?" - asks David

"In general, they use it to fix disbalance and to handle bots in the game, it sounds very similar to another games" - says Lilla

"Yes and No, in another games bots with or without AI knows anything about you, about you units or you character, and in fact game designers works to setup AI shouldn't win every time, they make them stupid than he can be. This game is different, in this game AI doesn't have additional information, in fact he try to analyse what he see and receive orders from you AI triyng to play. So, if AI looks anybody, he tried to identify it enemy or not, and than try to kill enemy. Sometimes is result we have friendly fire, because AI doesn't recognise friends from his unit. It really looks like people in the warfield" - says David.

"Ok, I understood, or I think I understood, please continue" - says Lilla.

David continues:

"And I want to explain to your my conspiracy theory, please do not laugh", and David told Lilla all details.

Lilla smiled, when David told her about reddit topic, and she interrupd him with message:

"It's was you, I read this topic, and I think about start my investigation about this case."

But when David continued Lilla looked horrified in the end: 

"Your story can scare anybody, but it very interesting for me, and I want to ask you about small favor, please next time invite me to date, not for a new investigation"

They continue to talk for hour or two, they talk about AI, and what is will be with world, if it is real - usage AI for military.

### Traders

In wednesday David received a message from Lilla: 

"Tomorrow, 10:00"

"Ok"

David, know, it is working time, but if he doesn't ask chief for allowing, he will receive to much more talks with him after, he doesn't like speaking with chief. But he did it.

Lilla wait him in café, and drinks coffee.

David sits, and inside he already was ready to the same result, he afraid this.
But Lilla begins:

"Oh David, it looks like you was right, I asked about this two guys in several all-knows-guys, and one of them told me, this told guy, we knows him like "Jeremy Badi" or "Jeremy Junior", it not his  - he is weapon trader. It is not criminal, he works with official contracts with military companies and goverments. Of course he is not public figure, but as my source told me, he use bitcoins or another crypto to receive his fee for his service."

"all-knows-guys?" - asks David

"You should understand, as journalist I have connections in different layers, and I knows some influential persons in police and _another_ organisations"

"Good, it sound interesting, but what we can do with this information?"

"I think, we can't use inside information, we should find links between persons in public sources" - answered Lilla.

"Like OSINT?"

"Yes, it would be great".

They continue to speak about OSINT technics, they also discussed how it affected the Ukrainian war against Russia.

### 17.

David told chief, that he wants to go to conference about AI. Cheif allow it, and pay for this visit because it business trip.

Lissabon. February.

Visit AI conferences. Not meet this guys. Only guys from AI Church.

### 18.

Prague. March.

Another conference, again the business trip.
Another conference about AI vision. Identify one guy, he hist make photo with speakers.
Davids tries to make photos of all contacts of this guy. 

### 19.

Berlin. April.

Game competition in Berlin, favorite game here is Dark Alert.
David goes here for interest about a game.

He likes this wibes of competition, he likes auditory of gamers.


### 20.

He noticed of three people, who stay aside in the dark corner, they don't look like gamers. He sees it's "Jeremy Junior", and second one "William Thompson". Who is third he can't recognize, it's to dark, and to far from David.

He tries to come to closer to make a photo, but without the result.
He just recognize some details of face, and it looks fimilar to him, but he can't remember where he saw it before.

### 21.

David backs home and starts by manual to search this face in all photos where he can see this guy.
It would be much easier with AI, but he doesn't have a photo of this stranger, but only a picture in his mind.

He starts with photo archive from last events.
Nothing.

Deeper, he check all contacts of this two persons Jeremy and William in linkedin, which he saw before.
No, nothing, not here.

He checks all contact of guys from Umbrella Group which have more than one common contact.
More than a hundred photos.
No, not here.

Last big part - photos of AI Church bots.
David decided to spend next weekend for this task.

### 22.

Work week.
David comes to office.
Bored tasks - fix scrappers for web resources, which prepare data for AI assistent.
He spend monday and thuesday for this tasks.
He added support of ten new resources for scrappers.
Tired and bored David decided to clean his work place and found newspaper with Lilla's article, he opens newspaper and looks at an article again.
He saw the man, the man with whom had meeting Jeremy and William.
This photo from another military exhibition, but without person name.
But David knows what he should do next.

"Lilla, I have a news. Tomorrow at 10:00?"

"Ok ))"

### 23.

Lilla already wait David and drink coffee.
David says "Hi", and strats told her all what he did in the last 3 monthes.
And in finally he put newspaper with Lilla's article to the table:
"This person was with our Jeremy and William on the Game competition, I saw how they all together go to the VIP places, where CEO of A.V.A.M. Ltd. come before. It not the just coincidence, all of them are linked"

Lilla sees on the photo and start speaking, her eyes sparkled with the passion of a predator:

"This is CEO on of military company in USA, I don't remember his name, his company called Engines of War, as I know they produced vehicles for special forces. He was on military exhibition in Israel and presents their last vehicle, but I don't remember the details, but I have advertisement brochure of this company. This investigation looks great, I like it, and will continue to investigate"

They were talking for 10 minutes about good weather. And beautiful river, and city and so on.

### 24.

It was Saturday. The morning. David sleeps.

"Ding" messages income to David's phone.
"Ding", another one.
"Ding. Ding. Ding"

"Oh come on" - thought David and tries with hand found the phone on the bed. "Today is Saturday, who is distrib me"

It was messages from Lilla:

"Hi"
"Yesterday, I reviewed photos from that exhibition, I found several very interesting photos, see on the background"

Than she sent a couple of photos, and David sees the CEO of Engines of War and CEO of A.V.A.M.
And another one with Jeremy Junior and CEO of A.V.A.M., he is litle blurred, but easy to recognise this person.

"CEO of Engines of War is Steve Nyolo, and Avraam Vin, I think you have already known him"
"I have a talk with my general editor"

Than David wait for next message, Lilla was continue writing.

"He promises me first page, if I prepared article for tomorrow"

"I found the brochure from Engines of War, they propos new vehicle, with intellectual turret, which uses AI vision to detect and capture target."

"Hi" - answered David - "You are awesome. It will be great article. How I can help you?"

"No, thank you, you already help me too much. And sorry, I will go to prepare the article"


### 25.

Sunday, after lunch David received message from Lilla.

"Tomorrow coffee at 10:00 ;)"

"Yep" answered David

When David step up from the subway station he sees the small shop with flowers, he decided to buy small spring flowers. And with smile he goes to the cafe.

He come to cafe, Lilla meet him with smile.

On the table David sees a newspaper with big title "You Play, They Win", and subtitle "How gamers uses to teach AI to kill people".

"We win" - Lilla smiles
"Only this turn" - David says it more pessimistic, but he like to see Lilla again. He present her the flowers.
She answered "It looks like a date"
He "As you proposed"

They continue to sit in the cafe and talking...
